# PATHLabDataMeeting.mp4

**Meeting Date:** 25th Nov, 2025 - 8:54 PM

---

**Speaker 1** *[00:00]*: Case I can need to go back. Thank you. Of course. 
**Speaker 2** *[00:03]*: Cooper, just so you know, any. Any uncertainty that ever emerges with this kind of thing, feel 100% free to ask questions and better if there's any uncertainty that we like, go over it together and make sure. I also think like, you know, the first few times rather than doing everything and then like, oh, no, there's this mistake, like, we can do it for the first few times, like just with the PhQ9, like, how does it look at time one time to how is the sum calculated? All that just so that we know it's like the. We've got it down. And then translating into other things can also be done. And also, you know, psychology is not the area you're coming from. 
**Speaker 2** *[00:47]*: So if you're, you know, it will be useful, I think when you're like, let's say, trying to like, calculate the MEQ to look at how that's done. But if you're ever uncertain based on a paper or something like that, you can always come to Silver Eye to say, hey, I'm a little bit confused. How is this subscale or total score work? And we can just look into it with there for you. 
**Speaker 1** *[01:08]*: Awesome, Sounds great. Feel free to. If I'm asking questions that are too detailed for this first meeting, feel free to just like, push me along to the others. But will you want each, like, for example, like PHQ9_1, will you want that to be human readable so that, like, it. There's a sense of what that actually represents in the data set? Yeah. 
**Speaker 2** *[01:34]*: So eventually the data set that we have, ideally it will be like in Excel so that it can then be transported into either SPSS or R. And we'll want those to be like, you know, you'll want it to be like the top because like SPSS will help you to like take that in so that like the top row is like the variable name. And so yeah, having it. Having it so that it's like readable and easily interpretable is important. 
**Speaker 1** *[02:08]*: So both the variable header will be human readable and whatever like those individual digits represent, that should also be human readable as well. 
**Speaker 2** *[02:20]*: Which the digits like in the data cells or the digits in the label? 
**Speaker 1** *[02:28]*: I guess I was meaning the digits in the data cells where, like, if it's. If it's right now, if it's like, I don't actually know what they represent, but if it's like 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, will you want it to be like one space dash and has a Description of each one, which we could still do like averages and sums on that or is. Do you just want the digits? 
**Speaker 2** *[02:52]*: Yeah, that's a great question. So, yeah, some things like, let's say it translates into either like almost always or one dash almost always. We would want it shifted into the. Just, just the piece of data. So we would just want it to be one and an important piece there will be. You'll want to know how things are scored when you do that, because some things need to be reverse scored. So it's not super common, but there are some measures where you need to reverse score it. So we want to make sure that before we kind of shift it from the thing that before it gets calculated in, it gets reverse scored. 
**Speaker 1** *[03:43]*: Yeah, got it. 
**Speaker 2** *[03:45]*: And sometimes people will make sure to have it be the item and then also have an R at the end of the item to indicate this has been reverse scored. 
**Speaker 1** *[03:58]*: Okay, got it. 
**Speaker 2** *[03:59]*: Okay. So that, so that we're aware. 
**Speaker 1** *[04:02]*: So reverse scoring is what you were talking about earlier, where it's like we. If, if it's typically a sum and there's something missing, we average and then multiply by the number of items. Would that be considered reverse score or no? 
**Speaker 2** *[04:18]*: So those would be two things. The one is if you have a missing piece of data and you calculate a sum score, you're effectively giving somebody a score of zero when they didn't. When they just had missing data. So calculating a mean first allows us to use a certain method of dealing with missing data. This is that at the item level, some items are reverse scored. So it's almost always. But the item is. They did negatively. So when they say almost always five, it actually means one when it's put into the total score. Does that make sense? 
**Speaker 1** *[04:53]*: Yes. Yes. 
**Speaker 2** *[04:54]*: Okay. 
**Speaker 1** *[04:57]*: Maybe one more note. Okay. And then I imagine the. All of the scales are all standardized. Like there will ex. Like there will be like guides. I might be able to Google online that have like. Yeah, yeah. Okay. 
**Speaker 2** *[05:32]*: Yeah, there would be. And Silver, can you share with Cooper the protocol? Because the protocol will have like. Like if a measure is being used, it'll have that in there and the specific. The primary reference for that measure. And if it's not a standardized item, like, there should be a better description of it in the protocol itself. There might be some items that. That's not the case for. And then, you know, come to us and we'll tell you. But yeah, the protocol should help to point you to the references when needed. Okay. 
**Speaker 1** *[06:12]*: My other Question that's coming to mind is will we get one download and then it's done, or will we get multiple? Like, will this be a sort of waves thing? 
**Speaker 2** *[06:26]*: What was the last word? 
**Speaker 1** *[06:27]*: Will it, will it come in waves? Like, will there be different? 
**Speaker 2** *[06:34]*: It's a good question. So there'll be a final product, let's say. But it is possible that will want to look at something, let's say halfway through. If, if we, if that creates like a lot of trouble, that's. That's okay. The main thing is that at the end of the day, like, it's not necessarily necessary that we have to be able to like, look at like, what's happening for everybody's phq9s every seven days or anything like that. It's just that it's possible, like, we would have like a primary readout and then we would have like more of an extension study down the road that includes additional data. So it's not like we need it to be like point and click and we can just look at it every 10 seconds. Like it's okay if there needs to be some work to make it happen. 
**Speaker 2** *[07:33]*: But yeah, there might be multiple times, if that's doable. 
**Speaker 1** *[07:36]*: With this structure, it's definitely doable. It's the only reason I ask is because it will change, like how we do it. But it's not any trouble by any means. Like, it's just sort of thinking ahead. Totally perfect. 
**Speaker 2** *[07:52]*: Then. 
**Speaker 1** *[07:54]*: And do you have a sense of when we will get the first download? 
**Speaker 2** *[08:00]*: Yeah. So right now, if we're doing a download, it's really just so that we could check to make sure there are some people when we'll actually do a download that might be like, used for statistical analyses. I would get maybe more like six months from now. 
**Speaker 1** *[08:21]*: Okay. 
**Speaker 2** *[08:22]*: Maybe three months at the earliest. Maybe we want to present something preliminary on it, but it won't be for a while. 
**Speaker 1** *[08:31]*: Okay. 
**Speaker 2** *[08:32]*: The other piece is that right now this study is housed at nyu. We're working on getting a Reliance Agreement that would give us access to it outside of nyu. But at the moment, like, Cooper, I couldn't share the data with you, right? So that's why the simplicity might be important because I might need to be like, hey, here's a thing. Here's a step by step for what I need to do because I can see the data or my colleagues need to do, but that I wouldn't be able to like, give it to you to then have the. I'm hopeful we can get some Kind of reliance agreement so we can see it. But even there you're not formally at the new school now, so that would actually. You seeing any of the data would actually require multiple things happening. 
**Speaker 2** *[09:15]*: So the ideal is like, you know, you create something and then give us a step by step of like point, click here, do this. Yeah, everything now translate into what you want. You should feel free. Like I think the download that Silver shared with you had like maybe a couple examples. Yeah, those aren't real data. So feel free to like use that or any additional like inputting of fake data so that you know it's all working properly in the meanwhile. 
**Speaker 1** *[09:48]*: Awesome. Sounds great. Just making one note. Okay. And then what is spss? I'm familiar with R, but I haven't heard spss. 
**Speaker 2** *[10:11]*: Yeah, so spss, it's like statistical analysis tool that I would say is probably the most standard in terms of use being used in psychology labs. The main reason is that it's like its user interface is pretty good. So whereas R requires use of code. Spss, it's a lot of point and click. You can use code but you don't have to. So it's in terms of like social sciences, it probably is the software that ends up getting used the most. And was I going to say it. It's more limited. It's not as powerful as R, sometimes people go away from it. But in terms of like I, I do most of my analyses in SPSS unless I have to go elsewhere. So it being able to fit into there is like is important. 
**Speaker 1** *[11:02]*: Got it. 
**Speaker 2** *[11:03]*: Okay. 
**Speaker 1** *[11:05]*: Perfect. And then let me just scroll through these. That these I'll update later. For the non standardized metrics. Like I don't know if there's different age or demographic fields. Is there any sort of code book? Is that in the protocol or are those. 
**Speaker 2** *[11:32]*: Yeah. So what are you. So you mean like is there a way to interpret the readouts from say demographics items? 
**Speaker 1** *[11:42]*: Yeah, like I'm. I guess I'm wondering for like I was looking at the race field, for example, if I need to sum or mean it. I'm not actually sure what I would be. No. 
**Speaker 2** *[11:56]*: Yeah. Anything that is like a. Not a standardized measure or doesn't you wouldn't have to sum or mean. So there it would. It's more like we want a list and we'll be able to. The only thing we would need to do there is primarily like descriptives. So just like, let's say it's. I don't know what the categories are, but if it's like if it's black and white, like it's fine for it to just say that. I'm trying to think you could. 
**Speaker 1** *[12:36]*: So for like as it currently stands there's like I think six fields where it's like race underscore one, race underscore two and then it, the values in there aren't black or white or whatever. It's like numbers like 1 or 2 and I'm not quite sure what those numbers actually mean or what the fields at the top mean. So I wasn't sure how. 
**Speaker 2** *[13:01]*: Yeah, okay, so. So I, I see. So it's not giving you the label, it's just giving you. 
**Speaker 1** *[13:07]*: Okay. 
**Speaker 2** *[13:11]*: Is it. Does it seem like it's that. I think that's the kind of thing that I or colleague would need to go in with you and basically just show you how things are structured in the red cap. Yeah. So when it comes time for that, either myself or I would get like an RA that's giving us some support. NYU would basically just do like a screen share with you and walk you through it. The key there to be aware of is that you know, they need to know that you can't see actually any data. You're there just to like observe the. But alternatively we might be able to just do like a printout of the red cap. That would probably be easier. 
**Speaker 2** *[13:55]*: Like I think you could do like a printout of the full survey and that might show you like the order that things are in and you can do it based on that. So if you send me an email saying that you want a printout, I will, I can look into to getting that for you. 
**Speaker 1** *[14:13]*: Yep, I'll do that. Okay. And then I know we're coming up on time here, but let me just. 
**Speaker 2** *[14:21]*: No worries. I've got, I've got time. So it depends on both of you. If you feel like you don't have time, I will. 
**Speaker 1** *[14:28]*: Let me check my messages. 
**Speaker 2** *[14:30]*: I've got to hop off at 1:30. 
**Speaker 1** *[14:32]*: But you guys should be able to. 
**Speaker 2** *[14:34]*: Stay without me if you both would like to. 
**Speaker 1** *[14:36]*: I actually unfortunately also have to hop off. I have a work meeting, but we can schedule more time too. 
**Speaker 2** *[14:43]*: Sounds good. One thing to be aware of is that this is all sensitive data. So if there is any program you're using, we need to make sure that's cool. Like if it's just all happening in Excel, that's fine. But if there's some kind of like AI related stuff or data sharing like that's we would need to get that confirmed. 
**Speaker 1** *[15:08]*: Yeah. So just. I'll just give you where my thoughts are right now. I think that the best course of action is this one. The Python script. Okay. What it would do, it would use Python, but it's local, so it, like, it's fully safe. Yeah. And what it would do, it would just be like, you would have to go into the command line, and I might even be able to make it simpler. But you would, like, write the script, it inputs the Excel, and then outputs the new thing. I do this at work already. I would like the use AI to write the Python script, but it wouldn't touch any Phi. And I also, like. I work with Phi often, so, like, confirmed that it would be fully compliant. But, yeah, I think most of my questions are answered. 
**Speaker 1** *[16:02]*: And then the other thing is, in terms of scope, if there were more data brought in, it would be that this would solve the issue of, like, having to do it multiple times, where you literally would just, like, run the script again and it would output the new. The new data set. 
**Speaker 2** *[16:17]*: That sounds perfect. 
**Speaker 1** *[16:19]*: Okay, awesome. So I think my next steps, if I. I'll review this and make sure that I don't have more questions that were unanswered, but I think I'll just start scoping, like, all the fields, figuring out which ones are standardized, figuring out how to best represent them. And then when I get to a place, maybe like, with the. The MEQ or the. The PHQ 9, where I'm like, oh, this is how I think it should be, I can, like, show you guys how it works for just that, like, one field, and then if it's looking good, we can keep moving. 
**Speaker 2** *[16:49]*: That sounds great. As a check for sanity. If there. When you are, like, doing calculations, like, if this is like this and that. I know in spss, you can create, like, a label that actually shares, like, how was this calculated? So it could be worthwhile to have, like, next to it. Like, just a description of, like, how was this created so people know. Oh, okay. Sometimes it's calculated like this. Here's what Cooper did. 
**Speaker 1** *[17:22]*: Yep. Absolutely can do that. 
**Speaker 2** *[17:24]*: So it's not like a kind of ghost in the machine of like, hey, why is this all wonky? 
**Speaker 1** *[17:28]*: Awesome. Yeah, definitely can do that. 
**Speaker 2** *[17:30]*: Okay. Yeah. Cooper, thanks so much for your help for this. You're the perfect person for it and we're grateful for it. Just let me know anything you need and appreciate your assistance. Silvery. 
**Speaker 1** *[17:42]*: No, thank you. I'm sorry. 
